Born as Narendranath Dutta on 12th January 1863 in the holy and divine place of Kolkata, Swami was a great Indian saint. He was a figure with “high thinking and simple living”. He was a great pious leader, a philosopher, and also a devout personality with great principles.  His eminent philosophical works comprise of “Modern Vedanta” and “Raj Yoga”. He was a principal disciple of “Ramkrishna Paramhansa” and was an initiator of Ramkrishna Math and Ramkrishna Mission. He thus spent his whole life in the dispersion of the values embedded in the great Indian culture.


Time lines::
Jan 12, 1863 Born Narendranath Dutta in Kolkata, India

1880 Passed the Calcutta University Entrance Examination in first division

Aug 16, 1886 Death of Shri Ramkrishna Paramhamsa

May 31, 1893 Swami Vivekananda sails for America

1893 Attends Parliament of Religions

Feb 20, 1897 Returns to Kolkata

1897 Founds the Ramkrishna Mission

Dec 9, 1898 Inaugurates the first monastery at Belur

June 1899 Sails for the second time to the West

1901 Ramkrishna Mission receives legal status

July 4, 1902 Vivekananda passes away in meditation at Belur monastery at the age of 39



Quotes::
Swami Vivekananda/Quotes
Arise,awake and donot stop until the goal is reached.

You have to grow from the inside out. None can teach you, none can make you spiritual. There is no other teacher but your own soul.

You cannot believe in God until you believe in yourself.

We are what our thoughts have made us; so take care about what you think. Words are secondary. Thoughts live; they travel far.

The world is the great gymnasium where we come to make ourselves strong.

All the powers in the universe are already ours. It is we who have put our hands before our eyes and cry that it is dark.

External nature is only internal nature writ large.

All differences in this world are of degree, and not of kind, because oneness is the secret of everything.

Truth can be stated in a thousand different ways, yet each one can be true.